Good afternoon, my name is Sarthak Dalmia, and today i am going to present on the topic impact of us financial crisis on european union startign with the presentation we are going to discuss asome basics of intl finance markets and some problems associated with it. Then we will breifly discuss the impact on different EU countries , especialy greece. Then we discuss the fall Northern Rock bank of uk following the crisis.

us financial crisis affected countries all arounf the in different ways as you can see in the graph due to different individual conditions of the countries and different levels of integration with foreign markets.

AN INTL bank such jp morgan chase are large scale dealing in international securities and loans. Their fundings mostly contains of instruments such as foreig exhange international securities such as foreign bonds and Eurobonds  and international loans from various other banks.

exchange rate affects: as currency value decreases, assets holdings in that currency of a bank decreases. which decreses the net worth and and thus deteriorates banks balance sheet. heavy reliance on interbank loans, though makes it easier to get funds in time of econommic boom, in time of crisis makes them equally vulnerable to a credit crunch.

Easy credit availability for intl banks increases moral hazard among the banks and also facilitates the creation of asset price bubble like what happened in the crisis in case of housing market.Lastly lack of coordination and increased dereguation , which was a major factor over the years leading up to crisis, results in huge increase in asymm info.

In addition to failure of large european based international banks such as NOrthern Rock and Deustche Industriebank AG due to previously mentioned reasons, each country had their own problem. For example spain had lack of standard accounting practices, making it easier for banks to engage in moral hazard. Whereas in Ireland, the rapid economic growth funded by FDI in the last two decades had created a housing market bubble, which errupted with the credit crunch brought about by the financial crisis. Germany was somewhat saved by their three pillar structure which only allowed a few types of banks to fail. For example private commercial banks like Deutsche Postbank AG and regional banks like the Saxony bank faced liquidity problems. Greece's systemic tax evasion and increased soverign debt paved the way to European sovereign debt crisis. As can be seen in the flowchart, Greece's government debt increased to more than 160% during the crisis. The re-valuation of securities which was triggered due to the crisis, had rendered greek bonds junk and exposed greeces financial position to the European Union.

Coming to Northern Rock. Northern rock was among the first to fall in the European union. Northern Rock was the fifth largest lender in UK. As you can see  in the graph the bank's growth had mostly relied on asset backed securities with over-investment in mortgage backed securities and CDOs. With the onset of the crisis as international funding stopped and the mortgages begain to default, their balance sheet begain deteriorating at an unprecendented scale. The bank turned to European Central Bank and Bank of england as a lender of last resort for a bailout of about 28 billion pounds. The final breaking point came when on september 14 2007 the bailout was made public due to a news leak. Following this the share price of the bank fell by over 85% to just 103 pounds which kicked the bank out of the FTSE 100 index. This also resulted in the first bank run in UK in over 150 years. The financial services compensation scheme was lack luster at best at that time with only 2000 pounds reimbursement and that to if the bank has not gone under administration changes with insolvency. This aggrevated the bank run. After limping on for months the ban was nationalised in feb 2008 and later acquired by Virgin money in 2012. Despite all this the bank has managed to survive till this date and has repaid most of its loan it not all back to banks. These repayments and the sale of the bank itself netted UK government a surplus of about 8 to 11 billion pounds.

concluding the presentation i would like to say that international finance while making it possible for rapid growth also makes institutions increasingly vulnerable to various financial and economic factors. For this system to work effeciently strict rules and guidelines from specific international organisations are required to manage the liquidity and risky behaviour of the invloved institutions.

Thank you and these are my references.